How do we conmmunicate between clients and servers?

HTTP, HTTPS (GET, POST, etc)
-browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Internet explorer) implement this for
clients (other clients exists, eg curl, hpne apps)
-web software (Nginx, Apache, etc) implements this for servers
-These are protocol problems 

Problems in Web Dev: Front End, Webpages, Browser
-How do we describe structured content?
-How do we layout and style content?
-How do we make that content interactive?

html5

css3

js

xml and json are ways we also describe structure of content

Problems in Web Dev: Backend, Databases, Server

How do we change our content dynamically?
How do we persist data in useful manner?
How do we tie the previous two together?

PHP

MySQL

PDO lets us access a mysql database but 
more broadly we will make our content more dynamically through a backend language + templating

There are many ways of generating HTML responses, most will be relational and more broadly most languages will have some sort of library to talk to mysql 

More General Problems:
All of the above are (sort of) solved / many solutions exist.
*How do we implement these solutions to solve real-world problems?
	-make a website that does x,y,z
*How do we do all of the above in a repeatable, reliable, and maintanable manner?

*These are what we are learning in these 16 weeks 

We know how to do this but what we are now learning is how to follow industry best practices of how to write sustainable code. 

For example, we are learning to use prepared statement for security purposes, we tell whatever is inserted to consider it a string 

--the following is scary because our website would be vulnerable to mysql injection:
SELECT name, date_established, location FROM national_parks WHERE name LIKE '%';--%
--that would give us back all parks if we put it directly into our search bar 

+ + +
+ + +
+ + +
SELECT NAME, location, date_established FROM national_parks
UNION (1,2,3);

SELECT 1,2,3

we use prepared statements to protect against mysql injections

We will get 1, 2, 3 in three separate columns with one row
